<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="common_structural_patterns" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Common Structural Patterns in DITA Packages</title>
  <shortdesc>Use common pattern categories to triage package structure before you design migration actions.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Map-level patterns</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Main map candidates based on index naming or structural weight.</li>
        <li>Abstract map candidates identified by title or structure.</li>
        <li>Fallback unknown map role when semantic evidence is absent.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Topic-level patterns</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Glossary topic candidates by root element or known structure.</li>
        <li>Fallback unknown topic role when a topic has no matching semantic signal.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Relationship patterns</title>
      <p>Discovery extracts topic references, map references, and media references into relationships. These relationship edges are critical for planning order, dependency analysis, and missing reference diagnostics.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Triage recommendation</title>
      <p>Start with counts and unresolved structure. If unknown or ambiguous cases repeat across packages, define plugin patterns with stable namespaced IDs so planning can route those cases deterministically.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
