<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="generate_discovery_report" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Generate a Discovery Report</title>
  <shortdesc>Generate and inspect <codeph>discovery.json</codeph> so planning starts from verified package structure.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Have read access to the package and a writable directory for reports.</p>
      <p>For first-time onboarding, save one discovery report as a baseline so you can compare future runs.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run discovery and write JSON output to disk.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor discover \
  --package /path/to/package \
  --output build/discovery.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Inspect the summary counts and invariant status.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq '{summary, invariants}' build/discovery.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Inspect map artifact metadata and relationships for the expected entry map.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq '.artifacts[] | select(.artifact_type=="map") | {path, classification, confidence, metadata}' build/discovery.json
jq '.relationships[] | select(.type=="topicref") | {source, target, pattern_id}' build/discovery.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Optional: enforce invariant failure as a hard stop.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor discover \
  --package /path/to/package \
  --output build/discovery.json \
  --fail-on-invariants</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>You have a validated discovery artifact that can be normalized into planning input.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">discovery.json includes:
  artifacts[]
  relationships[]
  summary
  invariants</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
