<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="create_action_emitter" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Create an Action Emitter</title>
  <shortdesc>Implement <codeph>emit_actions(...)</codeph> to transform evidence into deterministic action templates.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Create at least one pattern that emits evidence for the target migration case.</p>
      <p>For first-time plugin onboarding, emit one action type first, then add additional routes after tests pass.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Implement <codeph>emit_actions(artifact, evidence, context)</codeph> in your plugin class.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Read roles from evidence and branch deterministically.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-python">from pathlib import Path
from typing import Any


def emit_actions(self, artifact, evidence: list[dict[str, Any]], context):
    roles = {ev.get("asserted_role") for ev in evidence}

    if artifact.artifact_type == "map" and "special_map" in roles:
        source_path = artifact.path
        target_path = f"target/maps/{Path(source_path).name}"
        return [{
            "type": "copy_map",
            "target": target_path,
            "parameters": {
                "source_path": source_path,
                "target_path": target_path,
            },
            "reason": "Route special maps into target/maps.",
            "derived_from_evidence": [
                ev["pattern_id"] for ev in evidence if ev.get("pattern_id")
            ],
        }]

    return []</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Keep action templates contract-safe.</cmd>
        <info>
          <ul>
            <li>Do not include an <codeph>id</codeph> field.</li>
            <li>Use package-relative targets.</li>
            <li>Include clear <codeph>reason</codeph> text for auditability.</li>
          </ul>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Generate a plan from fixtures and verify emitted actions.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor plan --input build/planning_input.json --output build/plan.json
jq '.actions[] | {id, type, target, reason, derived_from_evidence}' build/plan.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>Your plugin emits explicit action intent that execution can dispatch without hidden logic.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">plan.json includes emitted actions with:
  type
  target
  reason
  derived_from_evidence
and no id field in emitted templates before planner assignment</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
