<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="create_plugin_pattern" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Create a Pattern</title>
  <shortdesc>Create plugin pattern definitions that emit stable evidence for planning.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Create a plugin package with a <codeph>DitaPlugin</codeph> subclass and collect representative migration fixtures.</p>
      <p>For first-time plugin onboarding, start with one pattern and one fixture package before you add additional rules.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Define a namespaced pattern ID and explicit <codeph>applies_to</codeph> value.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Use a plugin namespace prefix such as <codeph>com.acme.migration.special_map_by_filename</codeph>.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Define deterministic <codeph>signals</codeph> and explicit <codeph>asserts</codeph> role and confidence.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-python">from dita_package_processor.discovery.patterns import Pattern

Pattern(
    id="com.acme.migration.special_map_by_filename",
    applies_to="map",
    signals={"filename": {"equals": "SpecialMap.ditamap"}},
    asserts={"role": "special_map", "confidence": 1.0},
    rationale=["SpecialMap.ditamap is the migration entry map for this corpus."],
)</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Return pattern objects from <codeph>patterns()</codeph> in your plugin class.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Validate plugin structure before running migration jobs.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor plugin validate /path/to/plugin-package</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run discovery on fixture packages and verify expected evidence appears.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>Discovery emits stable evidence records that planning can consume for deterministic routing.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">plugin validate output includes:
  Validation passed - 1 entry point(s) OK
discovery evidence includes new pattern_id entries</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
