<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="handler_execution_contract_ref" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Handler Execution Contract</title>
  <shortdesc>Use this contract when you implement action handlers for plugin-defined or overridden action types.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Handler class requirements</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Inherit from <codeph>ExecutionHandler</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Define class attribute <codeph>action_type</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Implement callable <codeph>execute(...)</codeph> method.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Execute method inputs</title>
      <simpletable>
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Input</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>action</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>Normalized action dictionary with ID, type, and parameters.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>source_root</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>Absolute source boundary for reads.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>sandbox</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>Target boundary resolver for writes.</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry><codeph>policy</codeph></stentry>
          <stentry>Mutation policy for overwrite and target validation.</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>ExecutionActionResult requirements</title>
      <p>Return <codeph>ExecutionActionResult</codeph> with these core fields: <codeph>action_id</codeph>, <codeph>status</codeph>, <codeph>handler</codeph>, <codeph>dry_run</codeph>, and <codeph>message</codeph>. Optionally return <codeph>error</codeph>, <codeph>error_type</codeph>, and metadata for diagnostics.</p>
      <p>Allowed status values: <codeph>success</codeph>, <codeph>failed</codeph>, <codeph>skipped</codeph>.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Safety expectations</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Reject parameter omissions early.</li>
        <li>Reject source path traversal outside <codeph>source_root</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Resolve write targets through <codeph>sandbox</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Honor dry-run mode with no filesystem mutation.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
