<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="implement_handler" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Implement a Handler</title>
  <shortdesc>Implement an execution handler when you introduce a custom action type or custom mutation semantics.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Define the action type emitted by your plugin and decide whether core handlers can execute it.</p>
      <p>For first-time plugin onboarding, implement dry-run behavior before filesystem writes so you can validate dispatch safely.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Create a handler class that inherits from <codeph>ExecutionHandler</codeph> and defines <codeph>action_type</codeph>.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Implement parameter validation, source-root validation, and dry-run behavior.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-python">from pathlib import Path
from typing import Any, Dict

from dita_package_processor.execution.models import ExecutionActionResult
from dita_package_processor.execution.registry import ExecutionHandler


class RouteSpecialTopicHandler(ExecutionHandler):
    action_type = "com.acme.route_special_topic"

    def execute(self, *, action: Dict[str, Any], source_root: Path, sandbox, policy):
        action_id = str(action.get("id", "&lt;unknown&gt;"))
        params = action.get("parameters", {})
        dry_run = bool(action.get("dry_run", False))

        # Validate required fields before path operations.
        if "source_path" not in params or "target_path" not in params:
            return ExecutionActionResult(
                action_id=action_id,
                status="failed",
                handler=self.__class__.__name__,
                dry_run=dry_run,
                message="Missing required parameters: source_path, target_path",
            )

        if dry_run:
            return ExecutionActionResult(
                action_id=action_id,
                status="skipped",
                handler=self.__class__.__name__,
                dry_run=True,
                message="Dry-run: custom handler skipped",
            )</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Enforce sandbox and mutation policy before writing files.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Return <codeph>ExecutionActionResult</codeph> with structured status and metadata.</cmd>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Register the handler class from <codeph>handlers()</codeph> and run execution tests.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>Your action type has a deterministic execution implementation with explicit failure reporting.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">handler tests show:
  success case returns status=success
  dry-run case returns status=skipped
  failure case returns status=failed with error details</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
