<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="register_plugin" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Register a Plugin</title>
  <shortdesc>Register and install your plugin so the platform can discover it through entry points.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Create a plugin package with <codeph>pyproject.toml</codeph> and a plugin instance or plugin class.</p>
      <p>For first-time plugin onboarding, validate and inspect plugin metadata before running any package migration.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Add a plugin entry-point declaration to <codeph>pyproject.toml</codeph>.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-toml">[project.entry-points."dita_package_processor.plugins"]
acme_dita_migration = "acme_dita_migration:plugin"</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Install the plugin package into the runtime environment.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m pip install -e /path/to/plugin-package</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Validate plugin structure locally.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor plugin validate /path/to/plugin-package</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Verify plugin registry visibility.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor plugin list
python3 -m dita_package_processor plugin info com.acme.dita_migration</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run a fixture migration and inspect emitted action types and outcomes.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>Your plugin is registered in the active environment and participates in discovery, planning, and execution according to its implemented extension points.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">plugin list includes your plugin name
plugin info shows expected pattern and handler counts
migration plan includes plugin-driven action types or routes</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
