<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="clean_up_duplicate_topics" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Clean Up Duplicate Topics</title>
  <shortdesc>Reduce duplicate topic content and duplicate routing targets to improve package quality and migration speed.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Generate plan and execution reports to detect repeated source or target patterns.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Identify repeated topic targets in plan actions.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq -r '.actions[] | select(.type=="copy_topic") | .target' build/plan.json | sort | uniq -cd</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Identify repeated topic sources in execution metadata or action parameters.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq -r '.actions[] | select(.type=="copy_topic") | .parameters.source_path' build/plan.json | sort | uniq -cd</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Define canonical topics and update map references to point to canonical files.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Keep canonical naming stable so repeated runs produce consistent targets.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Regenerate artifacts and validate that duplicate routing counts decrease.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor run --package /path/to/package --docx-stem OutputDoc --target build/target --report build/execution-report.json
jq '.summary' build/execution-report.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>Topic routing and map references are simpler, which reduces maintenance effort and lowers migration risk.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">duplicate target and source counts decrease across reruns
plan actions route to canonical topic files</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
