<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="resolve_broken_references" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Resolve Broken References</title>
  <shortdesc>Identify and correct broken internal references so execution output remains navigable and complete.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Run discovery and generate an execution report from dry-run or apply mode.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Check discovery-level missing reference counts in execution report.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq '.discovery | {missing_references, external_references}' build/execution-report.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Inspect relationship edges for unresolved targets.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq '.relationships[] | {source, type, target}' build/discovery.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Fix source paths, map topicrefs, or media paths in the package or plugin routing rules.</cmd>
        <info>
          <p>Keep path normalization deterministic. Do not rely on runtime fallback guesses.</p>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Regenerate discovery and re-run dry-run execution to verify counts.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor discover --package /path/to/package --output build/discovery.json
python3 -m dita_package_processor execute --plan build/plan.json --source-root /path/to/package --output build/target --report build/execution-report.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>Internal links and media references resolve cleanly in the migrated output package.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">execution-report.json discovery fields trend toward:
  missing_references: 0
  external_references: expected value for your policy</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
