<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="typical_ai_generated_problems" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Typical Problems in AI-Generated DITA</title>
  <shortdesc>Identify recurring structural defects in generated DITA to prioritize deterministic refactoring actions.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Map structure issues</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Multiple candidate entry maps with no clear main map.</li>
        <li>Flat map hierarchies with weak section boundaries.</li>
        <li>Map references that duplicate or conflict with topic references.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Topic structure issues</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Topic titles and navtitles that do not align.</li>
        <li>Mixed concept, task, and reference semantics in a single topic.</li>
        <li>Generated topics with weak metadata and missing role signals.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Reference and media issues</title>
      <ul>
        <li>Broken <codeph>href</codeph> paths after package reorganization.</li>
        <li>Media files copied into unexpected folders.</li>
        <li>External references that should be internalized for delivery builds.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>How to prioritize fixes</title>
      <p>Start with issues that block deterministic planning and execution: missing entry map certainty, broken references, and repeated duplicate topics. Then address structure quality improvements that improve navigation and reuse.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
