<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="run_discovery_only" xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.3">
  <title>Run Discovery Only</title>
  <shortdesc>Run the discovery scanner when you need package facts without planning or mutation.</shortdesc>
  <taskbody>
    <prereq>
      <p>Have read access to the package root directory.</p>
      <p>For first-time onboarding, use this task to build confidence with package inventory output before you generate a plan.</p>
    </prereq>
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Run discovery and write the JSON report.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor discover \
  --package /path/to/package \
  --output build/discovery.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Optional: print the full report to stdout for quick review.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor discover \
  --package /path/to/package \
  --json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Fail the command if discovery invariants fail.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">python3 -m dita_package_processor discover \
  --package /path/to/package \
  --output build/discovery.json \
  --fail-on-invariants</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
      <step>
        <cmd>Check high-level counts and invariant status.</cmd>
        <info>
          <codeblock outputclass="language-bash">jq '{summary, invariants}' build/discovery.json</codeblock>
        </info>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <result>
      <p>You have a read-only inventory artifact for triage, planning input generation, or plugin analysis.</p>
      <p>Expected output:</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-text">summary:
  map: &gt;= 1
  topic: &gt;= 1
  media: &gt;= 0
invariants.passed: true or false (explicit)</codeblock>
    </result>
  </taskbody>
</task>
